[Music.]
[Silence.]
[Commercial]: In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank, a Franklin family community bank, proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
[Commercial]: Since 1862, First National has provided local decision making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans to the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Last week, we introduced you to Dr. Douglass Starr, who many an Aggie journalism student knows as Professor Starr.
[Tom Turbiville]: But you know him now as World War II veteran Doug Starr, Navy Soderman aboard the tin can USS Nicholas.
[Tom Turbiville]: Today, we'll talk about and we'll see some incredible photos from what Doug Starr witnessed up pretty close, the official end of World War II, the signing of the Japanese instrument of surrender aboard the USS Missouri to September 1945.
[Tom Turbiville]: and there was Korea aboard the USS Walk and his post-war life as a journalist for Associated Press and the path that brought him to Texas A&M in 1986.
[Tom Turbiville]: Please welcome back to Veterans of the Valley, Professor Douglass Starr.
[Tom Turbiville]: Great to have you back and great to continue what's really a fascinating story.
[Tom Turbiville]: For those who weren't with us last week, we can't repeat all of that, but you were aboard the USS Nicholas and we talked about what that
[Tom Turbiville]: ship that destroyer did in the war, 13 battle stars that you were involved in.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then talk about to September 1945, obviously a very historic date, the date of the signing of the surrender of Japan and how the USS Nicholas was involved that day and the days leading up to it.
[Tom Turbiville]: Go ahead.
[Douglass Starr]: OK, we were lead ship in Halsey's Admiral Halsey's third fleet off the coast of Japan, 55 days waiting to go in to take in the landing party.
[Douglass Starr]: to attack the home island of Japan in case the Japanese decided not to surrender.
[Douglass Starr]: And toward the end of this 55-day thing, there were negotiations going on between President Truman and the emperor.
[Douglass Starr]: And he told them he had a bomb, and the emperor didn't believe it, so we dropped the bomb.
[Douglass Starr]: And the emperor said, well, you don't have another one.
[Douglass Starr]: And Truman said, yes, I do.
[Douglass Starr]: And he didn't believe that, so we dropped another one, and then the war was over.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, the projected casualty rate would have been a million soldiers and sailors.
[Douglass Starr]: And so it stopped all of that carnage.
[Douglass Starr]: So instead of going in as an attacking force, we went in as an occupying force.
[Douglass Starr]: But to go in, we needed pilots and interpreters and all that because Sagami Bay, which is the entrance to Tokyo Bay,
[Douglass Starr]: was mined, and we didn't know where the mines were.
[Douglass Starr]: And so we had to have people to tell us.
[Douglass Starr]: So they sent out a gunboat with all of these interpreters and pilots.
[Douglass Starr]: We picked them up.
[Douglass Starr]: We transferred them to the Missouri and to other ships.
[Douglass Starr]: And then we led the formation into Sagami.
[Douglass Starr]: That evening, we anchored in the bay.
[Douglass Starr]: There was Mount Fuji off in the distance, beautiful mountain, looked like a little pile of sugar there with a snow-capped top.
[Douglass Starr]: And when the sun started to go down, the captain ordered darkened ship, which was routine in a dangerous place.
[Douglass Starr]: And when Admiral Halsey saw all the ships go dark,
[Douglass Starr]: He got on the radio and he stole all ships, light ship, because he wanted to impress the Japanese that we weren't afraid of them.
[Douglass Starr]: We were, because we didn't know what they were going to do.
[Douglass Starr]: But fortunately, they obeyed the emperor and did not do anything against us.
[Douglass Starr]: So we slept through the night.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then into Tokyo Bay and the...
[Tom Turbiville]: You touched on it, but I want to talk more about the signing of the surrender and the people that you picked up, the dignitaries that you picked up, some 65, I believe, or so dignitaries from China, all the allied nations, plus American admirals and generals.
[Tom Turbiville]: When you think back of it, this was quite an awesome responsibility.
[Tom Turbiville]: Did you realize at the time the history that you were witnessing?
[Douglass Starr]: Kind of.
[Douglass Starr]: I was only 19 years old, so what do you know when you're 19 years old?
[Douglass Starr]: But yeah, I kind of thought, this is really something I'll tell my father when I get home.
[Douglass Starr]: Of course, he knew it, but I was going to tell him anyway.
[Douglass Starr]: But we spent that night in Sagami, and the next day we went into Tokyo Bay.
[Douglass Starr]: And the Missouri anchored out.
[Douglass Starr]: And then four destroyers were assigned the duty to pick up dignitaries.
[Douglass Starr]: So we had 65 or so of the Allied high-ranking officers who were going to witness the signing.
[Douglass Starr]: They didn't all sign it.
[Douglass Starr]: They were standing there watching the ceremony.
[Douglass Starr]: And each of the other three ships had about that same number of people.
[Douglass Starr]: And we acted like a taxi service from the wharf to the Missouri, dropped them off, and then
[Douglass Starr]: anchored close by because we had to take them off and take them back after the ceremony was over.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Douglass Starr]: So we were close enough.
[Douglass Starr]: We could see what was going on on the deck of the Missouri there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were up on the bridge where you sort of strained your neck to sort of see what was going on.
[Douglass Starr]: Didn't have to.
[Douglass Starr]: Just stand there and look.
[Douglass Starr]: Just stand there and just watch them.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Some of the people that were actually on the USS Nicholas that you transported to the ceremony that people will certainly know from their military history, General Stilwell, General Wainwright, Lieutenant General Jimmy Doolittle was on your ship.
[Douglass Starr]: Little bitty fella.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Major General Curtis LeMay.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then other allied representatives, six from China, five from Russia.
[Tom Turbiville]: seven from Australia, a Canadian, four French, including General Leclerc, was on your ship, five from the Netherlands, and one from New Zealand, and the way you transported them from one ship to the other.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, we used what's called the breeches buoy, and what you do is you put a rope between the two ships, and a chair is hung on that rope, and you pull it, and it pulls them across from one ship to the other.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, we were very careful because we were transporting dignitaries, and we couldn't drop them and dunk them into the bay.
[Tom Turbiville]: You don't want to give them a dip.
[Tom Turbiville]: They wouldn't think that was as funny as you would.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, that's right.
[Douglass Starr]: So we were very careful, and we transported all 65, and we had two of those breeches boys going, so we were doing two at a time.
[Douglass Starr]: And it took some time to do that, but we got them all over there dry.
[Douglass Starr]: And they got aboard ship, and then they all lined up.
[Douglass Starr]: You've seen the pictures of the actual ceremony, and boy, just a solid wall of people standing there.
[Douglass Starr]: Of the dignitaries.
[Douglass Starr]: Of the dignitaries from all over.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: When you were standing on the bridge there of the Nicholas and looking over and seeing Admiral Chester Nimitz standing there on the bridge of the Missouri.
[Tom Turbiville]: We talked about this.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want you to tell me about it.
[Tom Turbiville]: For a young soldier only 19 years old at the time, you must have been a little bit starstruck at that, right?
[Douglass Starr]: Well, yeah, because you don't get seeing Admiral very often.
[Douglass Starr]: That was the first one I ever saw.
[Douglass Starr]: He was standing there watching all the things we were doing.
[Douglass Starr]: He wasn't looking at me, but he was looking at the activity of actually transporting these people back and forth to the ship.
[Douglass Starr]: But it was quite a sight to see him standing there.
[Douglass Starr]: And he was just leaning on the rail.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Douglass Starr]: As a young sailor, you're thinking, hey, there's the boss.
[Douglass Starr]: There's the main man.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah.
[Douglass Starr]: That's more impressive than the president.
[Douglass Starr]: Oh, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Certainly more impressive than seeing MacArthur.
[Tom Turbiville]: He's the army guy, right?
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, he was the soldier.
[Douglass Starr]: We weren't too interested.
[Tom Turbiville]: He was the soldier.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want you to tell a story that I've never heard it before about something that happened during that signing.
[Tom Turbiville]: And about the table.
[Douglass Starr]: The table?
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, go ahead.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm going to let you tell them.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, yeah, okay.
[Douglass Starr]: As I was told by somebody who was there in Missouri, they said they got everybody around and they said, well,
[Douglass Starr]: Where are we going to put these papers to sign?
[Douglass Starr]: They said, well, we need a table.
[Douglass Starr]: Oh, where are we going to get one?
[Douglass Starr]: Well, the mess hall is full of tables, so they sent a couple of sailors down to the mess hall, and they came back up with the table, and they set it down.
[Douglass Starr]: They put a nice green cloth on top to make it look nice.
[Douglass Starr]: for the cameras.
[Douglass Starr]: And so then they signed it all, and everything was done.
[Douglass Starr]: Salutes, thank you, clap, clap, and everybody leaves.
[Douglass Starr]: Two sailors put the table back.
[Tom Turbiville]: In the mess hall.
[Douglass Starr]: In the mess hall.
[Douglass Starr]: And so somebody says, where's the table?
[Douglass Starr]: Well, we put it back.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, get it.
[Douglass Starr]: It's a famous table.
[Douglass Starr]: They didn't know which one they picked up.
[Tom Turbiville]: They went in the mess, saw all these tables, didn't know which one it was.
[Douglass Starr]: They're all the same.
[Tom Turbiville]: Exactly.
[Tom Turbiville]: So this famous table that could be in the Smithsonian now.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, it's still in the Missouri.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's still in the Missouri because nobody knows which one it was.
[Douglass Starr]: And nobody knows.
[Tom Turbiville]: And like you told me, if that guy had been smart, he'd have just said, hey, yes, this one right here.
[Tom Turbiville]: And he would have, if the man was still alive or if he had gone to his death, knowing that, hey, he didn't know whether that was the right table or not.
[Douglass Starr]: But, you know, every table looked exactly alike.
[Douglass Starr]: We had the same tables in the Destroyer.
[Douglass Starr]: The missing table.
[Tom Turbiville]: The missing table.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got a lot of photographs that I want to see.
[Tom Turbiville]: And before we go to the photographs, I want to tell people that a lot of the photographs that you're about to see come from the website of the USS Nicholas.
[Tom Turbiville]: And it's an incredible website.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I urge anybody with any interest in World War II history or certainly Pacific history, it's very easy, www.ussnicholas.org.
[Tom Turbiville]: Go to that website, and you'll see not only a first-person account,
[Tom Turbiville]: of his experience from Doug Starr but about half a dozen others who are on that website and lots and lots of photographs in history of this magnificent destroyer.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go ahead and go to some of the photographs that we have here that we're going to talk about.
[Tom Turbiville]: First off, by way of review, there is a young sailor, Douglass Starr.
[Tom Turbiville]: And this was after World War II, right?
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, I'm 20 years old here.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, you're an old man.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, just turned 20.
[Douglass Starr]: And that's a sonar rating badge on the left sleeve there.
[Douglass Starr]: Earphones with an hour going through it.
[Tom Turbiville]: We talked a little bit last week about the skill of being a sonar man.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: And, of course, the first of the ribbons, and you were to accumulate several more ribbons and medals in your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: There you go.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is a good picture of you.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is a young Doug Starr and one of your shipmates, right?
[Douglass Starr]: On the left, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're on the left, right?
[Douglass Starr]: We had just finished sonar school because that's my rating badge, and his is on his sleeve, but you can't see it.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to keep that up just a second, because you said to me before we started this show, and this photograph really brings what you said into focus, that World War II was fought by kids.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, legal children.
[Tom Turbiville]: Look at those two faces.
[Tom Turbiville]: I mean, those are kids.
[Tom Turbiville]: Those are high school-looking kids, if that, and you're the one on the left, and these are the kids that
[Tom Turbiville]: who I believe you said in a recent speech that you were born in New Orleans, but you grew up on the Nicholas, right?
[Douglass Starr]: In the South Pacific.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And that's where you grew up.
[Tom Turbiville]: There's the Nicholas, another good photograph.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: of it.
[Tom Turbiville]: And that's a destroyer.
[Tom Turbiville]: Destroyers are small ships by comparison.
[Tom Turbiville]: They're about a football field long, a little bit more, 376 feet long.
[Tom Turbiville]: And how did you describe its size?
[Douglass Starr]: It's black long and across the street wide.
[Douglass Starr]: And it's the most beautiful, if you look at it, it's the most beautiful ship ever designed.
[Tom Turbiville]: There's a lot packed into a small ship.
[Douglass Starr]: Oh boy, there's nothing in it but ammunition.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, I mean, you think of an aircraft carrier and how you can walk on an aircraft carrier, and it's like you're on land or in a building.
[Douglass Starr]: Oh, well, this thing was in constant motion.
[Douglass Starr]: We had 300 enlisted and 30 officers crowded into that thing.
[Douglass Starr]: We had 200 men living aft, 100 men living forward, 30 officers living in the forward part of the ship.
[Tom Turbiville]: And it's called a tin can because it was so small.
[Tom Turbiville]: As a matter of fact, I believe I read something that you wrote that said you go down below at your bunk,
[Tom Turbiville]: And you could actually put your hand against the wall to feel the water rushing by.
[Douglass Starr]: Feel the water go by.
[Douglass Starr]: That's right.
[Douglass Starr]: It was only about that thick.
[Douglass Starr]: A quarter inch thick.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now here's a series of photographs of what we've just been talking about.
[Tom Turbiville]: 2 September 1945.
[Tom Turbiville]: In the foreground of the photograph, or the for water, I guess it was, on the right side, that's the USS Missouri, and that's the Nicholas alongside on the left.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I guess back behind, is that the other destroyers coming up?
[Douglass Starr]: Other destroyers, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: But this is the Nicholas alongside.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you can see the comparison of the two ships and its size because your ship, Nicholas on the left, is a football field or more long.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you think how long that is, you see how long the Missouri is.
[Douglass Starr]: And we were about to transfer the dignitaries across, the interpreters and pilots, Japanese.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got more photographs.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go on to the next one.
[Tom Turbiville]: There's the same time, Missouri, and you're on the other side.
[Tom Turbiville]: About to, again, about for the signing of the peace agreement.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's another good comparison of the size.
[Douglass Starr]: See, they had three cannons in the mount.
[Douglass Starr]: Missouri, we had one.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, this is the transport.
[Douglass Starr]: That's the breacher's boy with somebody in it, and it's being moved across.
[Tom Turbiville]: I believe that's one of the Chinese delegates.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's being moved across from, that picture is taken from the Missouri.
[Douglass Starr]: From the Missouri.
[Tom Turbiville]: Back to the USS Nicholas 449.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, C449.
[Tom Turbiville]: Coming across.
[Tom Turbiville]: And yeah, I would think that, yeah, when they're right about at that point, you're thinking, let's not dip him now.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's get him across.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, that's right.
[Douglass Starr]: But look at the waves that we're in.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes.
[Douglass Starr]: You know, that's not a placid sea.
[Tom Turbiville]: No.
[Tom Turbiville]: No, that's, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, a situation there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about this photograph.
[Douglass Starr]: This is in the mess hall where the officers eat, called the wardroom.
[Douglass Starr]: And if you'll see that the people with the hats on, those are our officers.
[Douglass Starr]: The people seated and the fellow on the far left, these are three Japanese, I don't know whether they're pilots or interpreters,
but they are three of the Japanese contingent that we had aboard to take us into Sagami Bay because it was mined and we needed to know where not to go.
[Douglass Starr]: If you notice that the officer standing in the rear, he has a .45 pistol on his belt.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, because there's still an issue of trust going on.
[Douglass Starr]: Oh, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Oh, yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Absolutely.
[Douglass Starr]: He would have shot them in a friendly sort of way.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, in a friendly sort of way.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, okay. Let's move on to now you're not in this photograph but it's part of your cruise book talk about what...
[Douglass Starr]: That's our scoreboard and that piece of equipment there is a fire control and that we it's a radar that we send out a signal and find out where the enemy is and then the cannons can track
that from this this equipment the officer is a fire control officer and the sailors up on the top they're all fire control operators
[Douglass Starr]: And the officer's pointing out our scoreboard, the airplanes that we shot down, the ships, I mean, submarines that we sank.
[Douglass Starr]: And that flag in there is the symbol of the presidential unit citation that Nicholas got before I went aboard for rescuing survivors of the cruiser Helena that was sunk in the Battle of Kula Gulf.
[Tom Turbiville]: fascinating photographs.
[Tom Turbiville]: And again, if viewers want to see these photographs, I'll tell you again, it's ussnicholas.org.
[Douglass Starr]: There's more than that.
[Tom Turbiville]: And there's a lot more than that.
[Tom Turbiville]: Believe me, there's a lot more than that.
[Tom Turbiville]: You can click to every link on there and you can see lots and lots of pictures aboard both vessels, as a matter of fact.
[Tom Turbiville]: What was the
[Tom Turbiville]: the atmosphere, I guess, like, because I'm thinking about aboard the Nicholas, here you are, you all had spent several months fighting this war at the height of the conflict in the Pacific campaign.
[Tom Turbiville]: fighting the war, as we talked about last week, you yourself were involved in enough campaigns and battles to earn 13 battle stars, kamikaze rage that fortunately your ship was able to miss.
[Tom Turbiville]: And all of a sudden,
[Tom Turbiville]: The whole atmosphere of what's going on is thrown into politics, into peace movement, into these people that have come aboard your boat,
these dignitaries from the different countries, the allied countries, and the USS Missouri.
[Tom Turbiville]: The whole idea of the war and everything that you all were doing on a daily basis sort of changed quickly, didn't it?
[Douglass Starr]: It did.
[Douglass Starr]: It changed immediately.
[Douglass Starr]: Now, we had all these, all of these people who came aboard were very high-ranking officers, and I was, you know, they were a step or two down from God,
and I was two jumps up from the apes, and we couldn't associate with them in any way, but we had a signalman who was red-haired, and he had a full red beard, and two
Russian admirals came up on the bridge when he was on watch, and I was up there on watch,
[Douglass Starr]: And they spotted that red beard, and they went over, and they felt his beard.
[Douglass Starr]: Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep.
[Douglass Starr]: And they felt his beard.
[Douglass Starr]: And they thought that was the grandest thing they'd ever seen, because I don't know what they were talking about.
[Douglass Starr]: They were talking in Russian.
[Douglass Starr]: For red and the word for beautiful, that's the same word.
[Douglass Starr]: That's why they call it red square.
[Douglass Starr]: It means beautiful square.
[Douglass Starr]: And so they kept saying this was the red beard.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, yeah, we thought it was red, but they were saying it was beautiful.
[Tom Turbiville]: I see.
[Douglass Starr]: Poor guy stood there.
[Douglass Starr]: He didn't know what to do.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: So the language hurdles were involved, too.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay, let's get past September the 2nd, after the surrender.
[Tom Turbiville]: Certainly, your duties were not over, and I want to go directly to what you were talking about, where you and three other destroyers, I believe,
removed some 1,000 POWs from a POW camp in Japan, and talk about that.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, this was in October, excuse me, yeah, late September, early October, we were sent up 500 miles
[Douglass Starr]: north of Tokyo to a little town called Sendai on the coast, where there was a POW camp.
[Douglass Starr]: The people in there were from the fall of the Philippines, so they've been there for four years.
[Douglass Starr]: And we went up four destroyers and a contingent of Marines to break them out and take them back down to Tokyo to put them in hospitals and take care of them.
[Douglass Starr]: So we did.
[Douglass Starr]: And the Marines go ashore fully armed.
[Douglass Starr]: And the sailors went on liberty.
[Douglass Starr]: And so we didn't have any weapons or anything.
[Douglass Starr]: We just walked around town.
[Douglass Starr]: But they told us, don't go by yourself.
[Douglass Starr]: Go in a group, which we did.
[Douglass Starr]: But nobody bothered us.
[Douglass Starr]: And they brought about 1,000 of those guys, and we had 250 of them per ship.
[Douglass Starr]: And the captain told us no sailor sleeps in his bunk tonight.
[Douglass Starr]: It's a 500-mile trip, you know, so the bunks are for the POWs.
[Douglass Starr]: The POWs didn't want to sleep.
[Douglass Starr]: They wanted to talk.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Douglass Starr]: But they wanted to find out what was going on because they knew nothing at all.
[Tom Turbiville]: Because they hadn't seen a friendly face, some of them, since 1942.
[Douglass Starr]: That's right.
[Douglass Starr]: Exactly.
[Douglass Starr]: Or 41.
[Tom Turbiville]: 41.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, maybe even.
[Douglass Starr]: And so anyway, we stayed up all night talking, and the next morning,
[Douglass Starr]: For breakfast, they would go around and find out what they wanted.
[Douglass Starr]: They wanted pancakes, and so they cooked up a bunch of pancakes.
[Douglass Starr]: We had to help them go down the ladders to the mess hall and carry the tray because they were too weak.
[Douglass Starr]: You could count the ribs just standing there, the little pot bellies from malnutrition.
[Douglass Starr]: They would take six or eight or 10 pancakes and put syrup all over it and butter and all that, take one bite, and they were through because the stomach couldn't handle it.
[Douglass Starr]: And we'd lead them back up on deck and talk, talk, talk, talk, whatever you can talk about.
[Douglass Starr]: They just wanted to talk.
[Douglass Starr]: And we took them back down.
[Douglass Starr]: We got them into Tokyo, and some went to the hospitals right away.
[Douglass Starr]: Some were put on ships and sent right back to the States.
[Douglass Starr]: depending on the condition they were in.
[Douglass Starr]: And then I met one, oh, several months after the war in Los Angeles, and I asked him how he was doing.
[Douglass Starr]: He said, well, he said, I don't eat three meals a day anymore.
[Douglass Starr]: I said, what happened?
[Douglass Starr]: He said, oh, I eat five or six.
[Douglass Starr]: He said, I can't eat enough to last me for four hours.
[Douglass Starr]: He says, I'd eat a little bit, and then two hours later, I'd eat a little bit more because my stomach won't hold it.
[Douglass Starr]: But I'm told that eventually they got over that.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Douglass Starr]: Back to normal.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know this is a very vivid memory for you, for sure.
[Tom Turbiville]: Need to move on.
[Tom Turbiville]: November, the
[Tom Turbiville]: 30th, you went home for 30 days, went back, you were discharged in January of 1947, I believe.
[Douglass Starr]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you went back to school.
[Tom Turbiville]: You went to Tulane and then eventually to LSU.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: And because you wanted to be a journalist, you were a journalist and that's where you learned the journalism trade initially.
[Douglass Starr]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: In school at LSU, right?
[Douglass Starr]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Douglass Starr]: And then I got a job.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, then I went back to Korea.
[Douglass Starr]: I got married, and eight months later, I got recalled for Korea, and we went over there.
[Tom Turbiville]: On the USS Walk, another destroyer.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah, but it was a bigger destroyer.
[Douglass Starr]: The Nicholas was 2,100 tons.
[Douglass Starr]: The Walk was 2,200 tons.
[Douglass Starr]: You can't tell the difference.
[Tom Turbiville]: No, no.
[Tom Turbiville]: 100 tons, give or take, right?
[Douglass Starr]: Give or take.
[Douglass Starr]: So it's the same size and everything.
[Douglass Starr]: And I was over there, and we opened the siege of Wonsan, which turned out to be the longest naval siege in history, because it went on through the whole war.
[Douglass Starr]: And we were there from the beginning, and we got shot at, well, same as in World War II.
[Douglass Starr]: We shot them, they shot us, but we never got hit.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: As a matter of fact, you were fortunate, I believe a month after you left the USS Walk, it was mined and hit a mine, and some 26 were killed and 40 injured.
[Douglass Starr]: It was my compartment, and the people who slept around me, they didn't even find the bodies, they just went out into the sea.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've just got about four minutes left to sort of wrap it up from there up until now.
[Tom Turbiville]: But I know that you just very quickly, you did work for the Associated Press.
[Douglass Starr]: I did.
[Tom Turbiville]: For several years.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you were at Florida State in North Texas and eventually came to A&M in 1986.
[Douglass Starr]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk a little bit about your journalism career.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, the most interesting part was when I was in Mississippi, in Jackson, Mississippi.
[Douglass Starr]: I was there for eight years, and that was when the desegregation order came down from the Supreme Court.
[Douglass Starr]: And we were covering all the activities that the state was trying to do to prevent integration of the races.
[Douglass Starr]: They wanted to keep the separation of the races.
[Douglass Starr]: Didn't work because the laws were against it.
[Douglass Starr]: But it was great for a reporter because there was more news going on every day.
[Douglass Starr]: You'd find something going on to write stories about.
[Douglass Starr]: I never did any columns or opinion pieces.
[Douglass Starr]: I just did straight news because that was my job.
[Douglass Starr]: You want to go about the other part too?
[Tom Turbiville]: You went to Florida.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were at Florida State.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's when you first got into the education part of it.
[Douglass Starr]: That's right.
[Douglass Starr]: Yeah.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And in North Texas for 12 years and you've been at A&M since 1986.
[Douglass Starr]: I taught at North Texas and then got
[Douglass Starr]: picked up down here and then when the journalism department was abolished they pulled me over there to the agricultural leadership education communication teaching journalism
[Tom Turbiville]: and public relations
[Douglass Starr]: public relations
[Tom Turbiville]: and a lot of your students want to go into public relations
[Douglass Starr]: yes they do yeah
[Tom Turbiville]: right
[Douglass Starr]: yeah in fact when when we had a journalism department the more than half of them want to go into public relations indeed yeah indeed
[Tom Turbiville]: In the time we have left, I want you to talk about your family.
[Tom Turbiville]: You mentioned that you were married in 1949.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were married for 54 years to Millie, and you lost her four years ago.
[Douglass Starr]: Four years ago.
[Tom Turbiville]: You and Millie had five children, four who survived today, and I know you're very proud of them.
[Tom Turbiville]: But I don't want to get away without saying that this past April the 12th was a very special day for you.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I'll let you make the announcement.
[Tom Turbiville]: Go ahead.
[Douglass Starr]: Okay.
[Douglass Starr]: Yes.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, I fell in love with a woman I met in 1954 when I first went to Mississippi.
[Douglass Starr]: And she had a family, and I had a family, and we were together for a long, long time visiting back and forth.
[Douglass Starr]: And then I got transferred over to Florida, and we would visit back and forth families.
[Douglass Starr]: And then she got divorced and remarried, and her second husband died, and then my wife died.
[Douglass Starr]: And last August, we renewed our acquaintance.
[Tom Turbiville]: And what's the date?
[Douglass Starr]: Five days ago, we got married.
[Tom Turbiville]: Well, congratulations to you and Carolyn.
[Tom Turbiville]: And right now, I know it's a commuter marriage, but that's the way it goes.
[Douglass Starr]: Well, things will change.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're very happy, and that'll change.
[Douglass Starr]: Thank you.
[Tom Turbiville]: Thank you very much for your service, and thank you for being with us.
[Tom Turbiville]: Incredible story.
[Douglass Starr]: Tom, I enjoyed it very much.
[Douglass Starr]: Appreciate it.
[Tom Turbiville]: Douglass Starr's World War II experience started when he was 17, and before he was 20, he had seen a lifetime of history.
[Tom Turbiville]: His service then for our country is as honorable as his service remains today as a journalism teacher of young men and women at the A&M School of Agriculture.
[Tom Turbiville]: We salute Douglass Starr for that service and thank him for sharing his remarkable stories and images.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
[Silence.]
[Music.]